What is Ethereum?

Answering this question is difficult, because Ethereum is a blockchain.
But now we have to explain what a blockchain is. Well, let's do it.

At it's simplest, a blockchain is simply another way to store data.
Computer science is all about storing and manipulating data, and so throughout
the years many smart people have come up with ways to store data. The
blockchain is no different. The reason it is called that is because it stores
data in blocks, which you can think of as a container for a bunch of data,
and the chain comes from the fact that these blocks are linked together
by something called hash pointers. Hash pointers are secured by cryptographic
hashes. Hashes are like unique fingerprints. For any digital piece of
information, if even 1 bit is different, a different hash will be generated
for it. So hashes can be thought of as unique identifiers. Once all the data
has been put into the block, we take the hash of all this data, generating
a unique block hash--no other block or any piece of data will have the same
hash (statistically speaking).

So now we have a bunch of blocks with unique identifiers. Since hashes are
unique, they can thus also act as pointers to pieces of data. Inside each
block we also store a piece of data called the "previous block hash". This
effectively links the current block to the previous block. The previous block
has the same thing, and links to it's predecessor, forming a chain of blocks
all the way to the first block. This is what gives blockchain it's name.
The blockchain data structure itself is not that special. Indeed, it is sort
of like a glorified linked list.

What really made blockchain such a big technology was the fact that it solved
an important problem in distributed computing. Blockchain has another
fundamental aspect to it, and that is the networking side--the computers that
store the blockchain. Now let's jump back in time and explore the inspiration
for blockchain in the first place.

Traditionally, when we have dealt with money, we have trusted large
institutions to safely manage our money, ie, banks. Banks keep a database,
or a ledger, of all the accounts, their balances, and transaction history.
We trust the bank, but there are many downsides to this system. First of all,
banks can abuse our trust. Banks also serve as middlemen, and thus often take
fees, or they have complicated interbanking processes that just make it more
costly and slow for the people. Finally, people without access to banks are
more or less left out of the financial system. There is a huge centralization
of power with banks.

And so the question was asked, can we build a decentralized system where the
people manage the history, transactions, and accounts themselves, instead of
relying on one central institution to do so? That is, can we just have a ton
of people maintaining the ledger, instead of one closed-door bank? If we have
one public ledger, and everyone maintains this public ledger and agrees to it,
can we solve this problem?

You might think that sounds crazy, and it is. Because yes, everyone can have
a digital copy of a ledger, but now the question becomes, how the hell do
you get people to agree on the state of the ledger? What's to prevent people
from adding a few zeros to their accounts, or double spending money? The
system would just be chaos and anarchy if that were the case. And so now
the question shifts from a more technical one to a sort of social one.

This is a distributed computing problem. How do you get a network of computers
(maintaining ledgers) to agree on a common state? Big companies like Amazon
and Google have already dealt with distributed computing.
