WHAT IS ETHEREUM?

If I had to describe Ethereum in one sentence, I would say: Ethereum is
a decentralized computing infrastructure that can perform any arbitrary
computation. Not the best explanation, perhaps?

The struggle for explaining Ethereum to beginners, especially non-technical
people is that Ethereum is many things. It's sort of like trying to explain
the internet, since the internet is also many things.

What do most people think of the internet as today? Well, for the typical
lay person, their understanding is probably limited to what they've
interacted with, that is, their ISP. They know the concept of "connecting to
wifi", and that being connected to the Internet essentially means clicking
a few buttons on their computer, and somehow they are magically connected
to this massive web, there's this feeling of being "online", that they can
access anything that the internet brings them.

They also know that there's an ISP that provides this service, and they have
to pay the ISP, since the ISP maintains all the infrastructure that connects
them to the internet. Thus, most people probably recognize that the Internet
is a giant network of routers, computers, and wires that are all
interconnected in some way.

And what can they use this internet for? Well, practically everything we do
nowadays. Most people probably spend 99% of their time on the web, since the
web provides practically everything we need. Google, email, video streaming,
etc. And these services provide massive value for people. They're efficient,
educational, practical, ways to make money, entertaining...everything we
could ask for.

And that's ALL that people need to know to use the Internet. Just a vague
concept of what it is (a massive network of interconnected devices) and how
they can use it. They don't need to anything about the underlying protocols:
how HTTP works, reliable data transfer, routing of packets, and the physical
properties of the internet.

People know that the power of the internet lies in the fact that with just a
simple connection, they can reach nearly anyone in the world (well, anyone
that they're likely to be interested in). And so with this notion, we can
describe the internet in one sentence: a network of interconnected devices
that allows the efficient sharing of information.

That's pretty general and vague, but that's okay, because we already know
what services the internet provides, and this general abstraction serves
to cover all the internet's facets without going into the weeds.

Now, back to the main topic at hand: what is Ethereum? How can we explain
Ethereum without getting too technical? It's a little bit more difficult
since there's not that many mainstream services or "killer apps" yet.
Well, let's take some inspiration from our explanation of the Internet,
and maybe then it will make more sense.

Ethereum is not a totally new, paradigm shifting technology like the steam
engine was, or the Internet. Ethereum is part of the existing "computer
paradigm", and is actually an application built on top of the Internet.
More specifically, Ethereum uses the TCP/IP protocols of the internet as
the underlying transport and network layers.






